---
category: learn
layout: learn
title: Macros
prev_section: context-data-and-localization-logic
prev_title: Context data and localization logic
---

<section class="clearfix">
  <div class="left">
    <p>L20n provides a way to define reusable pieces of logic through user-defined macros.</p>
    <p>Macros take arguments (which are referenced in the macro's body with the dollar syntax: <code>$arg</code>) and return strings.  The logic is described through simple if-else statements (using the ternary operator: <code>a ? b : c</code>).  You call macros with arguments using the C-like syntax: <code>macro(arg1, arg2)</code>.</p>
    <p>You can call macros everywhere where you can put entities:  inside of string values: <code>{% raw %}{{ macro(arg) }}{% endraw %}</code>, in indexes and even in other macros.  You can't, however, pass references to macros like  you do with entities; for instance, you can't pass a macro (without calling it) as an argument to another macro.  Lastly, macros can only return primitive values, i.e. strings, numbers, and booleans.</p>
    <p>In the example below, we define a macro called <code>plural</code> which takes one argument, <code>$n</code>.  In the macro's body, <code>$n</code> is compared with 0 and 1, and based on its value, one of <code>zero</code>, <code>one</code>, or <code>many</code> is returned.  The returned string is then used as the index of the <code>shared</code> entity.  Notice that we're defining a two-value index:  first we choose the plural variant, then we look at the gender and choose the final translation based on that.</p>
  </div>
  <div class="right">
    <div class="editor dataEditor height15"
      id="dataEditor1"
      data-source="sourceEditor1"
      data-ctxdata="dataEditor1"
      data-output="output1"
    >{
    "user": {
        "name": "Jane",
        "followers": 1337,
        "gender": "feminine"
    }
}
    </div>
    <div class="editor sourceEditor height35"
      id="sourceEditor1"
      data-source="sourceEditor1"
      data-ctxdata="dataEditor1"
      data-output="output1"
    >&lt;plural($n) { $n == 0 ? "zero" : 
                $n == 1 ? "one" : "many" }&gt;
&lt;shared[plural($user.followers), $user.gender] {
  zero: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} liked your post.",
  one: {
    masculine: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} shared your post to his one follower.",
    feminine: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} shared your post to her one follower.",
   *unknown: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} shared your post to one follower."
  },
  many: {
    masculine: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} shared your post to his {% raw %}{{ $user.followers }}{% endraw %} followers.",
    feminine: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} shared your post to her {% raw %}{{ $user.followers }}{% endraw %} followers.",
   *unknown: "{% raw %}{{ $user.name }}{% endraw %} shared your post to {% raw %}{{ $user.followers }}{% endraw %} followers."
  }
}&gt;
    </div>
    <dl id="output1">
    </dl>
  </div>
</section>
