---
category: learn
layout: learn
title: "Variants"
---

<section class="clearfix">
	<div class="left">
    <p>As we stated at the beginning of this tutorial, an entity primarely
    consist a string value. But there are cases, in which it makes sense to
    store multiple variants of the value. The <code>brandName</code> example,
    in languages that use noun declension, may need to be declined when
    referred from other entities.</p>
    <p>Select expression, introduced in one of the previous chapters, does not provide a
    way to easily refer to a particular variant of the value from another
    entity. Instead, L20n lets you define traits, which are variants of the whole value
    that can be externally referred to using <code>key[trait]</code> syntax.</p>
    <p>For instance in many inflected languages (e.g. German, Finnish, Hungarian, all Slavic languages), the about preposition <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Case_government">governs the grammatical case</a> of the complement. It might be the accusative (German), ablative (Latin) or locative (Slavic languages).</p>
    <p>In Slovenian, the ideal string would inflect the noun, like so: <code>O Aurori</code>. However, since we want the name of the browser to be stored in the <code class="entity">brandName</code> entity, we can't modify it.</p>
    <p>The work-around is to inflect an auxiliary noun complement, e.g.
    browser, to give <code>About the Aurora browser</code>. Needless to say,
    this ends up being long and often unnaturally-sounding to the native
    speakers. See <code class="entity">about-old</code> for the example in Slovenian.</p>
    <p>This problem can be easily solved by defining multiple variants of the <code class="entity">brandName</code> entity, to match different grammatical cases of the noun.</p>
	</div>
  <div class="right">
		<div class="editor sourceEditor height20"
		  id="sourceEditor1"
		  data-source="sourceEditor1"
		  data-output="output1"
		>brandName =
 *[nominative] Aurora
  [genitive] Aurore
  [dative] Aurori
  [accusative] Auroro
  [locative] Aurori
  [instrumental] Auroro

about-old = O brskalniku { brandName }
about = O { brandName[locative] }

		</div>
		<dl id="output1">
		</dl>
	</div>
</section>
